---
layout: default
title: Overview
---

h1. Overview

table{frame: void}.
|Author|immerrr|
|Contact| "immerrr+lua@gmail.com":mailto:immerrr+lua@gmail.com|

*lua-mode* is an "Emacs":emacs major mode for editing "Lua":lua. The development has moved to "github":lua-mode-github, so update your bookmarks if you still look for new releases at luaforge.

If you have a problem or a suggestion about *lua-mode*, please, let me know about it via "issue tracker":lua-mode-tracker.

h2. INSTALLATION

The preferred way of installation is via "el-get":el-get or "MELPA":melpa packages.

h3. EL-GET-BASED INSTALLATION

"El-get":el-get is a a package manager which greatly simplifies adding modules to your Emacs and keeping them up-to-date. It already includes a recipe for *lua-mode*, so once you have *el-get* set up, installing *lua-mode* can be done with

bc.    <M-x> el-get-install lua-mode

and updating is no more than

bc.    <M-x> el-get-update lua-mode
    
Please, consult with el-get documentation for further information.

h3. MELPA-BASED INSTALLATION

"MELPA":melpa is a package repository compatible with standard Emacs lisp package archive ("ELPA":package-el) introduced in Emacs24 that strives to provide up-to-date versions packages which is invaluable in the world of everchanging Emacs packages. Please, follow the installation instructions from "MELPA":melpa main page and you'll be able to install *lua-mode* with

bc.    <M-x> package-install lua-mode

h3. MANUAL INSTALLATION

1. Grab a zipball or pick any commit you like on "github":lua-mode-github:
   * "current snapshot":https://github.com/immerrr/lua-mode/zipball/master
   * "last stable release":https://github.com/immerrr/lua-mode/zipball/rel-20130419

2. Next, you need to make sure that @lua-mode.el@ is on your load-path (and optionally byte-compile it) and to set up Emacs to automatically enable it for @*.lua@ files or ones that contain lua hash-bang line (`#!/usr/bin/lua`). Putting this snippet to @.emacs@ should be enough in most cases:

bc..     ;;;; This snippet enables lua-mode
    ;; This line is not necessary, if lua-mode.el is already on your load-path
    (add-to-list 'load-path "/path/to/directory/where/lua-mode-el/resides")

    (autoload 'lua-mode "lua-mode" "Lua editing mode." t)
    (add-to-list 'auto-mode-alist '("\\.lua$" . lua-mode))
    (add-to-list 'interpreter-mode-alist '("lua" . lua-mode))

p. 3. (optional) Byte-compile lua-mode if you like

h2. USAGE

*lua-mode* supports automatical code indentation and sending of lines/regions/files to a Lua interpreter. An interpreter (see variable @lua-default-application@) will be started if you try to send some code and none is running. You can use the process-buffer (named after the application you chose) as if it were an interactive shell. See the documentation for @comint.el@ for details.

Lua-mode also works with Hide Show minor mode (see @hs-minor-mode@).

[emacs]http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/
[lua]http://www.lua.org
[lua-mode-tracker]https://github.com/immerrr/lua-mode/issues
[lua-mode-github]https://github.com/immerrr/lua-mode
[el-get]https://github.com/dimitri/el-get
[elpa]http://tromey.com/elpa/
[melpa]https://github.com/milkypostman/melpa
